% CSCI 4229 - Final Project
% Miles Rufat-Latre & Michael R. Shannon
% Wednesday, October 15, 2014


We intend to create a procedural planet consisting of level of detailed terrain
with lakes, rivers, trees, and other plants.  The purpose is to give the player
an environment to walk around in and explore.

The primary goals will be the terrain of the planet along its rivers, lakes,
buildings and foliage all lit by a day/night cycle.  Our stretch goals will be
animated animals, wind (moving leaves and water), weather (random
rain/clouds/thunderstorms), atmospheric music, and dynamic lighting
(flashlight/torch).  Our extreme stretch goals are shadows and grass.

These goals are highlighted below along with who will be implementing each.


Goals
=====

Primary Goals
-------------

+ Procedurally generated planet (terrain). - _Miles_
+ Oceans and Lakes. - _Miles_
+ Procedurally generated trees and foliage. - _Michael_
+ Day/Night cycle. - _Michael_
+ Buildings. - _Undecided_




Stretch Goals
-------------

+ Lakes and rivers. - _Miles_
+ Dynamic lighting. - _Michael_
+ Animated animals. - _Miles_
+ Wind (foliage) - _Michael_
+ Wind (water) - _Miles_
+ Dynamic weather. - _Miles_
+ Atmospheric music. - _written by 3rd party_




Extreme Stretch Goals
---------------------

These are goals which we can get to if everything else falls into place.

+ Shadows. - _Miles_
+ Grass. - _Michael_





Details
=======



Terrain/Water
-------------

Miles
Explain terrain and terrain lodding here.



Foliage
-------

The trees and foliage will be procedurally generated by some method.  The two
most popular choices we have considered are L-Systems and the method described in 
_[Creation and Rendering of Realistic Trees by Weber and Penn](http://www.cs.duke.edu/courses/fall02/cps124/resources/p119-weber.pdf)_. 
This method has been used before with with excellent results as seen in this 
[video](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9N0N6hxqOUQ).

As a stretch goal of this section LOD will be applied.  If using _Weber & Penn_ trees
then this is covered in the paper above.  If instead we use L-Systems then
billboarding will probably be the method used for LOD.

An extreme stretch goal corresponding to foliage is grass.  This will be density
based and should be affected by wind and or player movement.



Buildings
---------

Miles
Explain buildings.



Lighting
--------

We will be implementing a day light cycle with at least one sun and one moon.
This will entail drawing the objects in the sky as well as changing lighting
direction/position and intensity throughout the day and night.

As a stretch goal we will add dynamic lighting such as flashlights and torches
that the player can use to light up the environment around them.



Miles, explain shadows.




Weather
-------

All of weather is a stretch goal.  One part is to implement wind effects on the
trees and foliage.  This means tree sway and/or rustling leaves using basic
physics and/or shaders.


Miles, wind on water and weather.




Music
-----

Miles.



